DOCS-1195: Review modular resources (#1992)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/extend/modular-resources/create/_index.md

no_list: true
---

> You can extend the capabilities of Viam, by creating a custom {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="module" >}} that offers {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="modular resources" >}} such as ([components](/components/), [services](/services/)) and even new {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}}.

Reviewer: Was looking at this while I review the current MR docs as well. Maybe support is better than contains??? 
```suggestion
You can extend the capabilities of Viam by creating a custom {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="module" >}} to support one or more new hardware or software {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="modular-resource" text="modular resources" >}}.
```
[nit] There shouldn't be a comma after "capabilities of Viam" :D

   - Find the relevant `viam-server` client interface as `<resource-name>/client.go` or `<resource-name>/client.py` on [Viam's GitHub](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/blob/main/).
     - For example, the base client is defined in [<file>rdk/components/base/client.go</file>](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/blob/main/components/base/client.go).
       See [Valid APIs to implement in your model](/extend/modular-resources/key-concepts/#valid-apis-to-implement-in-your-model) for more information.
   - Use this first file as a reference when making edits to `my_modular_resource.go` or `my_modular_resource.py`.
   - Name your model according to the namespace of the built-in API you are implementing.
     For more information, see [Naming your model](/extend/modular-resources/key-concepts/#naming-your-model).

1. **Prepare to Import Your Custom Model and Subtype's API:**

   To prepare to import your custom model and chosen resource subtype's API into your main program and register them with your preferred SDK:

   - Find the subtype API as defined in the relevant `<resource-name>/<resource-name>.go` file in the RDK on Viam's GitHub.

>      - For example, the base subtype is defined in [<file>rdk/components/base/base.go</file>](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/blob/fdff22e90b8976061c318b2d1ca3b1034edc19c9/components/base/base.go#L37).

Reviewer 2: This may mean the line number could end up being wrong - but it will ensure the file is not out of date
```suggestion
     - For example, the base subtype is defined in [<file>rdk/components/base/base.go</file>](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/blob/main/components/base/base.go#L37).
```

    This main program is the "entry point" to your module.
2. [Code a main program](#code-a-main-entry-point-program), <file>main.go</file> or <file>main.py</file>, that starts the module after adding your desired resources from the registry.
   Import your custom model and API into the main program and register them with your chosen SDK.
   This main program is the "entry point" to your module.

3.  [Compile or package](#compile-the-module-into-an-executable) the module into a single executable that can receive a socket argument from Viam, open the socket, and start the module at the entry point.
3. [Compile or package](#compile-the-module-into-an-executable) the module into a single executable that can receive a socket argument from Viam, open the socket, and start the module at the entry point.

### Code a new resource model

The following example module registers a modular resource implementing Viam's built-in [Base API](/components/base/#api) [(rdk:service:base)](/extend/modular-resources/key-concepts/#models) as a new model, `"mybase"`, using the model family `acme:demo:mybase`.

> For more information see [Naming your model](/extend/modular-resources/key-concepts/#naming-your-model).

Author: In hindsight this shouldn't have been done! I was mistaking naming your model's client interface vs naming your model, thank you!
